documenting how to grant permissions within limited scopes (#5114)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/account_management/rbac/role_api.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Granting Permissions within limited scopes

> Certain permissions can be granted within a limited scope. This is easily done manually from the Datadog application in [the Pipelines Page][1], but can be done programmatically via the API the Role API if the correct "scope" is added in the payload. The following permissions can be granted within a limited scope:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certain permissions can be granted within a limited scope. This can be done manually from the Datadog application in [the Pipelines Page][1], or programmatically via the Role API if the correct "scope" is added in the payload. The following permissions can be granted within a limited scope:
```

> |       permission name        | scope name |                  format                  |                          Description                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|       Permission Name        | Scope Name |                  Format                  |                          Description                           |
```

|------------------------------|------------|------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|

> | logs_read_index_data         | indexes    | list of index names (string)             | Grant read on only certain log indexes                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `logs_read_index_data`         | indexes    | list of index names (string)             | Grant read on only certain log indexes.                         |
```

> | logs_write_exclusion_filters | indexes    | list of index names (string)             | Grant update on the exclusion filters for only certain indexes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `logs_write_exclusion_filters` | indexes    | list of index names (string)             | Grant update on the exclusion filters for only certain indexes. |
```

> | logs_write_processors        | pipelines  | list of processing pipeline ids (string) | Grant update on only the processers of certain pipelines       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `logs_write_processors`        | pipelines  | list of processing pipeline ids (string) | Grant update on only the processors of certain pipelines.       |
```

> For example, if you wished to grant read access only on two indexes named "main" and "support" to a role named "support", your API call would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to grant read access only on two indexes named `main` and `support` to a role named `support`, your API call would look like this:
```

```sh
curl -X POST -H "Content-type: application/json" -d '{"scope": {"indexes": ["main", "support"]}}' "https://app.datadoghq.com/api/v1/roles/${ROLEUUID}/permissions/${PERMISSION}?api_key=${API_KEY}&application_key=${APP_KEY}"
```

> If you wished to grant write access to only two processing pipelines whose IDs were "abcd-1234" and "bcde-2345" respectively, your API call would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To grant write access to only two processing pipelines whose IDs are `abcd-1234` and `bcde-2345` respectively, your API call would look like this:
```
